# _Rainbow 6 Seige beginners Guide_
*Original Text Document Link: https://www.reddit.com/r/SiegeAcademy/comments/8z5rh9/a_long_detailed_guide_for_beginners_to_siege/*
Let me start off by saying that I’m no kind of god at this game. In fact, I’m mediocre; level 149, Gold II, 0.9 K/D, 1.1 W/L. Not exactly the best stats but the reason I got into gold was because of my game knowledge and ability to make quick decisions. So, in this guide, I’ll be looking to help some beginners get over the extremely tough learning curve of this game. Now, it won’t be easy, even after this guide, but you’ll be better off than people who haven’t read this guide, that’s for sure. Let’s get started, shall we?

First off, thank whoever gave you the idea of buying this game. Ubisoft has told us their goal is to get 100 operators in the game and by that point, this game would have been hell for beginners to understand. Anyways, the real list. First off, watch or skip the tutorials (I’d say watch them as they give a pretty good overview of the game while keeping it short and sweet) to get 200 renown each. Given that there’s 3 tutorials, that’s 800 renown right off the bat. Previously, they could’ve been used to get (basic, not DLC) operators and attachments but that’s not the case anymore. Now it’s just free 800 renown to spend anywhere, maybe for the buildup to your first DLC operator, which take 25,000 renown to unlock (22,500 if you have the season pass).

After that, I suggest going into situations. I personally did not go into situations and it turned out fine but I suggest Situations because they give you good practice of this game’s most fundamental aspect, peeking. It’s different to most of the other FPS games on the market because of this. Peeking involves in a player leaning to one side to get a good angle while giving minimal exposure. In this entire game, if you master peeking, you are sure to do good which is why I suggest giving this a go in Situations. They walk you through the game and familiarize you to the basics which people have said helps a lot before your first PvP game.

After situations, I suggest going into terrorist hunt to test your skills out on more AI bots and to start building teamwork with the other 5 people that will join you for the terrorist hunt. At this point, you should learn of one part of this game that is considered rather toxic, teamkilling. Teamkilling involves in someone accidently or purposely killing their own teammate. If you see someone shooting you right off the bat in a terrorist hunt game, report them for toxic behavior and just leave the match. Given your inferior skills to most players in this game, fighting them will usually result in defeat, frustration, and a complete waste of time. So just leave all the haters behind 😊. You could skip terrorist hunt and go straight to casual, but this will help you hone your abilities and be better in your first PvP game.

After that, go into casual. Casual is a game mode anyone can join and it doesn’t count for anything. You must be level 20 or above to play Ranked as that is a competitive game mode and will count to your rank which most people will judge you for. There are 6 ranks and they are (from worst to best), Copper, Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum, and Diamond. Copper to Gold are divided into four sub ranks (Copper IV, Copper III, Copper II, Copper I etc.). Plat is divided into three sub ranks and Diamond has no sub ranks. It’s just referred to as Diamond. Anyways, back to casual. There are three game modes in a PvP game. Hostage, which has you get or prevent the other team to run away with a hostage. The hostage is killable, I repeat, the hostage is killable. So, don’t… Secure Area has you try to secure or defend the objective from being secured from the other team. Bomb has you defending two bomb sites or trying to successfully pull a defuse of one of the bombs. I recommend dropping the defuser if you do have it. Considering this is one of your first Rainbow Six Siege games, you would have too little experience to know where and when to plant the defuser. I suggest hanging back and watching where and when the other players plant as mental notes for your future endeavors.

In casual, you will play as either the attacker or the defenders in one of the three game modes I listed above. It pits you in a 5v5 with 4 teammates with you that you can certainly learn some tricks from. I suggest playing some of the operators I list below as your picks in these casual matches.

The best operators for you currently are Sledge, Thatcher, and Fuze on offense and Rook, ROOK, and rOoK on defense.

Sledge’s ability is a breaching hammer which can destroy soft walls (soft walls are walls not reinforced by the defenders; reinforced walls can be identified by the small x’s on a wall) and hatchers. You get a total of 25 of these breaches though you very rarely run out of these so go wild! As for loadout options, you get a great assault rifle and shotgun as your primary. I use the AR though both options are strong. For secondary, you get a SMG and a handgun. This one is a no brainer; the SMG is better in majority of the situations so I recommend that one. For his gadget, he has stun grenades or frag grenades. Stuns temporarily blind your enemies and frags damage them. Frags are a rare choice on offense so I suggest going with these but the stuns are viable as well. I recommended Sledge as he is a well-balanced operator with breaches, good weapons, frags and being 2 speed and 2 armor (operators are given a speed and armor ranking. 1 armor 3 speeds are the fastest while not having much protection. 2 armor 2 speeds are in the middle. 3 armor and 1 speed are the slowest and loudest but they give the most protection). Also, his AR has low recoil which will help beginners learn how to handle recoil.

Thatcher’s ability is EMP grenades which disable or destroy all enemy gadgets within a radius of 5.2 meters and all defender sights for 10 seconds. He is a easy operator to use and if you have a Thermite or a Hibana, stick to them like hot glue (Thermite’s/Hibana’s ability is to destroy reinforced walls and you help destroy any enemy gadgets which are preventing them to be able to do their jobs). Never get killed early as a Thatcher without using your EMP grenades. Always stick back with the team and let them go in first, you are more valuable as an operator than probably any of them. After using your EMP grenades, do whatever you want. He has the same loadout as Sledge except for an extra AR and the reduction of the secondary SMG. All primary weapons on Thatcher are a good option. He only has 1 secondary so… His gadgets include breaching charges and a claymore. Breaching charges are basically Sledge’s special ability. They can open soft walls and hatches (they make a bigger impact though). Claymore are mines which deal fatal damage to any defender who triggers it by standing in front of it. Attackers won’t trigger it but if an attacker is in front of it as the same time as a defender, they’ll both die. I suggest breaching charges as claymore placements are a bit complicated. I suggest Thatcher as even if he doesn’t get any kills or assists, he can win a game by using his gadgets and given the probably weak mechanical skills of beginners, they can still help their team.

Fuze’s ability is a gadget that deploys five puck shaped grenades which deal fatal damage to anyone close enough. You can usually fuze (Fuze’s gadget is sometimes referred to as “fuze”, don’t get confused) a room at the start of the round and get a cheeky kill. The gadget is very simple once you understand it yet extremely complicated once you really get the hang of it. He has a bulletproof shield, a great AR (really though, nobody talks about this) and a LMG which is as good as LMG’s get in this game (high damage, tons of bullets though ridiculously slow reload time). I suggest the AR or LMG as shield mechanics are a bit buggy in this game (you are facing them as a shield but they are facing your side and can kill you, stuff like that). Both of his secondary options are great, I use PMM because of its high damage and fast reload. His gadgets are breaching charges and smoke grenades which really fit his playstyle. You can fuze a room and then breach into it or smoke it and go for a cheeky fuze. Your choice. I recommended Fuze as he’s a easy operator to get kills with and his weapon options are solid and also because he’s a 3 armor and can soak up more damage than a 1 armor (notice how I have no 3 speeds as recommended choice; beginners are too unexperienced to learn how to subsite speed for armor, no offense).

Rook’s ability is a set of 5 armor plates which reduce every damage someone receives (who’s wearing the plates) by 20% and doesn’t reduce speed. You can literally help your team in the first few seconds of the game by putting down your plates. After that, nobody would care whether you died first because you already did your job. His primary weapons are subpar. The P90 has low damage, high recoil and a high rate of fire. MP5 is a very well balanced though a bit below average. The shotgun is one of the worst and/or least liked shotgun in the game. It’s ok if you know how to use it though. I recommend the MP5. His secondary weapons include a western style revolver or a pistol. The revolver has high damage but high recoil (they’re buffing the recoil soon though) and the pistol is as good as pistols get in Siege. I suggest pistol for now, revolver when the buff it. His secondary gadgets include impact grenades and a deployable shield. Deployable shield is bulletproof and can completely cover you from one side while crouching. Impact grenades are like breaching charges for the defender, they make a hole in soft walls or hatches. I use impacts but that’s because I know the layout of the maps, I suggest deployable shield for beginners. Be careful with your gadgets as attackers can pick up the plates too! I suggest destroying the pack 1 minute into the game to prevent this from happening. I recommended Rook because c’mon. He’s Rook, the best operator for beginners and advanced players alike. I still main Rook!

Last thing. Attachments. Sights affect how you see with the gun while aiming down, muzzle attachments can reduce your recoil or suppress your gun or make it have higher damage at farther ranges, grip affects your recoil or you aim down sights time and laser affects your hip fire accuracy. I implore you to test and play around with different guns and attachments and operators though this one guide on muzzle attachments really helped me a lot while making my choice on which muzzle attachment to put on.

That’s about it. Don’t teamkill and if someone’s being toxic, report them and leave. If you need help finding some people to play with, here is the official Rainbow Six discord server. Oh, I almost forgot. _NEVER PLAY CASTLE AS A BEGINNER._
